README.md, before:

TinyQBN
=======

A simple toolkit for creating filtered-card-deck stories (aka
storylets or quality-based narratives or resource narratives) with
Twine 2 and SugarCube. Use Twine's passage tags to mark cards and
their requirements, and a couple of simple functions and macros to
select and display cards. Continue to use Twine links as usual
when those are the appropriate tool.

Status
------

This is still missing a good way to automatically display storylet
requirements to the player. That's...a *complicated* thing to do
in a generic library like this, and I may or may not ever figure
out how to do a good job of it.

And it hasn't been used for a real game/story, so it could have
hidden design flaws.

I believe that my examples exercise all the features, and
everything works there, but I don't have a proper test suite for
the code.

Other than that, I'm regarding this as feature-complete. I'd like
to add a bunch more documentation and examples, but that's not my
strong point, so it's slow going. There might also be a few more
convenience features I could add.

But I think this is about as far as it makes sense to go in Twine
without writing an entire new story format. And since Twine's
editor is not designed for this, if you're going that far you
might as well spend the time to bang together a more suitable
editor and make a full custom tool. My two cents, YMMV, etc.


Adding TinyQBN to your Story
----------------------------

Copy the Story Javascript (the [minified](story-javascript.min.js)
or the [readable](story-javascript.js) version), the
[widgets](widgets.txt) (create a passage with a `widget` tag for
these) and optionally the [Story Stylesheet](story-stylesheet.css)
into your game. Click the "Raw" button when viewing these for
easier copy/pasting.


Documentation
-------------

There is a [quick-reference](doc/quick-reference.md) which gives a
brief overview of all the current features, and [my more
descriptive reference to the original features](doc/reference.md)
is also still available.

There are a bunch of walkthroughs demonstrating various features.

The video versions of these walkthroughs are in [a playlist on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLy3M_6DKN9joOGhUD1chHumc9aS6EZZ_F).

The text versions are in this repository, along with the resulting
code (both in the text-based Twee format and HTML versions which
you can download and import into Twine):

* [Getting Started with TinyQBN](doc/tutorial-1.md):
  [twee](examples/tutorial-1.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/tutorial-1.html).
* [Seasonally Available Items](doc/tutorial-2.md) (more complex
  conditions and a yearly loop structure):
  [twee](examples/tutorial-2.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/tutorial-2.html).
* [Single-Use Cards for Story Passages](doc/tutorial-3.md):
  [twee](examples/localvore.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/localvore.html).
* [Cards with Covers](doc/cards-with-covers.md):
  [twee](examples/covers.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/covers.html).
* [Inline Choices](doc/choices.md):
  [twee](examples/choices.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/choices.html).
* [Card Priority](doc/priority.md):
  [twee](examples/priority.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/priority.html).
* Managing Story Progression (no walkthrough, only a quick test that the
  code works):
  [twee](examples/progress.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/progress.html).

The new features in this version of the library are:

* Creating two-part cards with a separate cover and contents
  within the same Twine passage. 
* Creating a list of card-like *choices* (which can be filtered by
  the current story state) within a single passage.
* Setting card priority to ensure certain cards are chosen or to
  exclude lower-priority cards altogether.
* Show a card's requirements to the player. This is very
  primitive, and I'm not entirely sure how to make it better
  enough to be useful.

I also wrote some completely undocumented code to create stats
that improve as you use them, using the "Basic Ability" math from
StoryNexus. That code is split between [basic-ability.txt][] and
the "choice helpers" at the end of [widgets.txt][].


Rebuilding the Minified Javascript
----------------------------------

If you make changes to `story-javascript.js` and you want to
rebuild the minified version, you'll need
[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) installed.

* Open a command-line window.
* Go to the folder where this `README.md` file is located (`cd blah/blah/blah`).
* Run the command `npm install` to download the necessary tools.
* `npm run build` will create the minified version of the story javascript.
* Once that's done, `npm run examples` will build the examples
  (assuming tweego is available).

Commit message:

Instructions for Tweego with VSCode.

README.md, after:

TinyQBN
=======

A simple toolkit for creating filtered-card-deck stories (aka
storylets or quality-based narratives or resource narratives) with
Twine 2 and SugarCube. Use Twine's passage tags to mark cards and
their requirements, and a couple of simple functions and macros to
select and display cards. Continue to use Twine links as usual
when those are the appropriate tool.

Status
------

This is still missing a good way to automatically display storylet
requirements to the player. That's...a *complicated* thing to do
in a generic library like this, and I may or may not ever figure
out how to do a good job of it.

And it hasn't been used for a real game/story, so it could have
hidden design flaws.

I believe that my examples exercise all the features, and
everything works there, but I don't have a proper test suite for
the code.

Other than that, I'm regarding this as feature-complete. I'd like
to add a bunch more documentation and examples, but that's not my
strong point, so it's slow going. There might also be a few more
convenience features I could add.

But I think this is about as far as it makes sense to go in Twine
without writing an entire new story format. And since Twine's
editor is not designed for this, if you're going that far you
might as well spend the time to bang together a more suitable
editor and make a full custom tool. My two cents, YMMV, etc.


Adding TinyQBN to your Story
----------------------------

Copy the Story Javascript (the [minified](story-javascript.min.js)
or the [readable](story-javascript.js) version), the
[widgets](widgets.txt) (create a passage with a `widget` tag for
these) and optionally the [Story Stylesheet](story-stylesheet.css)
into your game. Click the "Raw" button when viewing these for
easier copy/pasting.


Documentation
-------------

There is a [quick-reference](doc/quick-reference.md) which gives a
brief overview of all the current features, and [my more
descriptive reference to the original features](doc/reference.md)
is also still available.

There are a bunch of walkthroughs demonstrating various features.

The video versions of these walkthroughs are in [a playlist on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLy3M_6DKN9joOGhUD1chHumc9aS6EZZ_F).

The text versions are in this repository, along with the resulting
code (both in the text-based Twee format and HTML versions which
you can download and import into Twine):

* [Getting Started with TinyQBN](doc/tutorial-1.md):
  [twee](examples/tutorial-1.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/tutorial-1.html).
* [Seasonally Available Items](doc/tutorial-2.md) (more complex
  conditions and a yearly loop structure):
  [twee](examples/tutorial-2.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/tutorial-2.html).
* [Single-Use Cards for Story Passages](doc/tutorial-3.md):
  [twee](examples/localvore.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/localvore.html).
* [Cards with Covers](doc/cards-with-covers.md):
  [twee](examples/covers.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/covers.html).
* [Inline Choices](doc/choices.md):
  [twee](examples/choices.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/choices.html).
* [Card Priority](doc/priority.md):
  [twee](examples/priority.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/priority.html).
* Managing Story Progression (no walkthrough, only a quick test that the
  code works):
  [twee](examples/progress.tw),
  [html](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/progress.html).
* [Setting up Tweego and VSCode](doc/tweego.md) to build Twine stories from text files instead of using Twine's graphical editor.

The new features in this version of the library are:

* Creating two-part cards with a separate cover and contents
  within the same Twine passage. 
* Creating a list of card-like *choices* (which can be filtered by
  the current story state) within a single passage.
* Setting card priority to ensure certain cards are chosen or to
  exclude lower-priority cards altogether.
* Show a card's requirements to the player. This is very
  primitive, and I'm not entirely sure how to make it better
  enough to be useful.

I also wrote some completely undocumented code to create stats
that improve as you use them, using the "Basic Ability" math from
StoryNexus. That code is split between [basic-ability.txt][] and
the "choice helpers" at the end of [widgets.txt][].


Rebuilding the Minified Javascript
----------------------------------

If you make changes to `story-javascript.js` and you want to
rebuild the minified version, you'll need
[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) installed.

* Open a command-line window.
* Go to the folder where this `README.md` file is located (`cd blah/blah/blah`).
* Run the command `npm install` to download the necessary tools.
* `npm run build` will create the minified version of the story javascript.
* Once that's done, `npm run examples` will build the examples
  (assuming tweego is available).
