doc/tutorial-3.md, before:

Single-Use Cards for Stories
============================

Since the previous tutorial, I added a bunch of products to each
of the business locations. This was mostly just filling things out
with extra content. The one interesting technique was that all of
the animal products at Anderson's farm are available year-round,
but they each have a 90% chance of occurring, so often they'll be
"out of stock" of one or two of them.

But you'll want to start from [the updated example](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/tutorial-2.html) ([Twee code](examples/tutorial-2.tw)) or at least add a "broccoli" product to Fairweather Farm.

-----

So far we have used exclusively sticky cards, to represent
physical objects and locations. But for pieces of story, you'll
more typically use single-use cards so you don't show individual
stories more than once. Let's do some of that: we'll add some
flavor text about what other customers are doing.

As with the current product listing, we'll re-use the code for all
the businesses. Create a passage called "product story".

	<<set _productstory to true>>\
	<<set _storycards to QBN.cards(1)>>\
	<<unset _productstory>>\

The argument to `QBN.cards` tells it to randomly select that many
cards (if possible) instead of returning all of them.  Then if we
found a story, we display it.

	<<if _storycards.length>>
	<<includeall _storycards>>
	<</if>>

Now we'll include this passage in all three businesses, and test
that it works with no stories.

And then let's add some stories about broccoli. Start by opening
the broccoli passage and setting a temporary variable that we can
match against: `<<set _broccoli to true>>`. Then create a new
passage, tag it with `card`, `req-productstory` and
`req-broccoli`. We could also say `req-location-eq-fairweather`,
but since they're the only ones selling broccoli I'll leave it
out. Then let's write the contents:

	A woman in her 60s stops short. Is that organic broccoli? Look
	at that //color//! That's the most beautiful broccoli I've
	ever seen! I'll have to buy some for my dog: he //loves//
	broccoli.

We'll also give the passage a title for the sake of easy
identification. Let's test that. Drive to Fairweather in January:
there should be no broccoli and no story. Go back home, advance to
April, then go back to Fairweather. There should now be broccoli
and the story should show up. Since it's a single-use card it
should only show up once. So if we start to drive away and then
get back out of the car, there should still be broccoli but no
story.

Let's add a couple more:

	A large black pickup truck parks outside and a
	broad-shouldered man in a torn sweatshirt enters the store.
	"Oh good, they //do// have broccoli today. I got a nice piece
	of sharp cheddar at Anderson's and I'm craving cream of
	broccoli soup."

And:

	A young couple meanders through the store. One turns to the
	other. "How about we make beef and broccoli tonight? We have
	those steak tips in the fridge that we need to use."

Now those cards can be randomly shown (once each) any time when
there is broccoli. You could also make stories about dishes that
need multiple ingredients: broccoli-spinach quiche, or kale-potato
soup. Just remember to set temporary variables in each ingredient
card so you can tell when they're available.

I think this is about as far as I'm going to take this example.
Hopefully it's enough to get you started even though it's still
just a setting rather than a story with any kind of plot.

[The full example](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/ocalvore.html).

Commit message:

Single-use cards tutorial: suggestions from Ian Michael Waddell.

doc/tutorial-3.md, after:

Single-Use Cards for Stories
============================

Since the previous tutorial, I added a bunch of products to each
of the business locations. This was mostly just filling things out
with extra content. The one interesting technique was that all of
the animal products at Anderson's farm are available year-round,
but they each have a 90% chance of occurring, so often they'll be
"out of stock" of one or two of them.

But you'll want to start from [the updated example](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/tutorial-2.html) ([Twee code](examples/tutorial-2.tw)) or at least add a "broccoli" product to Fairweather Farm.

-----

So far we have used exclusively sticky cards, to represent
physical objects and locations. But for pieces of story, you'll
more typically use single-use cards so you don't show individual
stories more than once. Let's do some of that: we'll add some
flavor text about what other customers are doing.

As with the current product listing, we'll re-use the code for all
the businesses. Create a passage called "product story".

	<<set _productstory to true>>\
	<<set _storycards to QBN.cards(1)>>\
	<<unset _productstory>>\

The argument to `QBN.cards` tells it to randomly select that many
cards (if possible) instead of returning all of them.  Then if we
found a story, we display it.

	<<if _storycards.length>>
	<<includeall _storycards>>
	<</if>>

Now we'll include this passage in all three businesses, and test
that it works with no stories.

And then let's add some stories about broccoli. Start by opening
the broccoli passage and setting a temporary variable that we can
match against: `<<set _broccoli to true>>`. Then create a new
passage, tag it with `card`, `req-productstory` and
`req-broccoli`. We could also say `req-location-eq-fairweather`,
but since they're the only ones selling broccoli I'll leave it
out. Then let's write the contents:

	A woman in her 60s stops short. Is that organic broccoli? Look
	at that //color//! That's the most beautiful broccoli I've
	ever seen! I'll have to buy some for my dog: he //loves//
	broccoli.

We'll also give the passage a title so you can tell what it is
from outside: I called it "Broccoli for the dog". Then let's
test it. Drive to Fairweather in January: there should be no
broccoli and no story. Go back home, advance to April, then go
back to Fairweather. There should now be broccoli and the story
should show up.

Since it's a single-use card it should only show up once. So if we
start to drive away and then get back out of the car, there should
still be broccoli but no story. If a product shows up instead, it
probably means that your `current products` code didn't unset the
`_product` variable. Temporary variables are visible *everywhere*
in the current "moment" (all included passages and everything,
until you follow a link to another passage).

Let's add a couple more, making a new passage for each:

	A large black pickup truck parks outside and a
	broad-shouldered man in a torn sweatshirt enters the store.
	"Oh good, they //do// have broccoli today. I got a nice piece
	of sharp cheddar at Anderson's and I'm craving cream of
	broccoli soup."

And:

	A young couple meanders through the store. One turns to the
	other. "How about we make beef and broccoli tonight? We have
	those steak tips in the fridge that we need to use."

Now those cards can be randomly shown (once each) any time when
there is broccoli. You could also make stories about dishes that
need multiple ingredients: broccoli-spinach quiche, or kale-potato
soup. Just remember to set temporary variables in each ingredient
card so you can tell when they're available.

I think this is about as far as I'm going to take this example.
Hopefully it's enough to get you started even though it's still
just a setting rather than a story with any kind of plot.

[The full example](https://joshuagrams.github.io/tiny-qbn/examples/localvore.html).
